The functions in this parte are temporary, since both a new API and a simple DSL (Domain Specific Language) for constructive solid geometry (CSG) are under development, and will be released with some next release.

## Solid Boolean algebra

We implement for ``d=2,3`` the solid Boolean algebras of piecewise-linear *CSG* with closed regular cells, generated by the *arrangement* of ``E^d``  induced by a collection of cellular complexes with polyhedral cells of dimension ``d-1``. 

An **atom** is something which cannot be decomposed into two proper subsets, like a singleton which cannot be written as a union of two strictly smaller subsets. Let call ``X`` the set of algebra atoms.

We call *structure* of  ``b \in \mathscr{P}(X)``  the atom subset ``S`` such that ``b`` is irreducible union of ``S``. By extension, we also call structure of ``b`` the *binary string* associated to the ordered sequence of its atoms (elements of ``X``).

In particular, the **structure** of each term of this algebra is characterized by a discrete set of points, each one computed once and for all in the interior of each atom. Set-membership classifications (SMC) with respect to such single internal points of atoms, computes the structure of any algebra element, and in particular transforms each solid term (each input) of every Boolean formula, into a **logical array** of length ``m``, equal to the number of atoms.

Let ``\mathcal{P}`` be a set of ``m`` hyperplanes that partition ``E^d`` into convex relatively open cells of dimension ranging from zero (points) to ``d``. The collection of all such cells is called a *linear arrangement* ``\mathcal{A}(\mathcal{P})`` and has been studied extensively in computational }. The cells in ``\mathcal{A}(\mathcal{P})`` are atoms of a Boolean algebra of subsets of ``E^d`` that can be formed by union of convex cells in the arrangement.

## Boundary of CSG models

There is a natural transformation between $d$-chains defined on a space arrangement and the algebra generated by that arrangement. 
The main innovation of this software is the representation of 3D atoms of the CSG Boolean algebra generated by a partition of $E^3$ space, using the basis $U_2$ of chain space $C$.
Such atoms are represented by the columns of the matrix $[\partial_3] : \partial_3 \to \partial_2$, as (possibly unconnected) 2-cycles of faces (2-cells) of $E^3$ *arrangement*. 

Unit $d$-chains correspond to atoms of the algebra; the $[c]$ coordinate representation (bit array) of any $d$-chain $c$ generates the  coordinate representation ``[b]`` in $B_{d-1}$, the *boundary* linear subspace of chain space of dimension $d-1$: 

```math
[\partial_d][c] = [b] \in B_{d-1} \subset C_{d-1}.
```

In most cases, the target geometric computational environment is able to display--more in general to handle--a solid model only by using some boundary
representation, typically a triangulation. It is easy to get such a representation by multiplying the matrix of  3-boundary operator $\partial_3: C_3\to C_2$ times the coordinate vector in $C_3$ space of the solid expression, computed as a binary term of our set algebra. 

Once obtained in this way the signed coordinate vector of the solid object's boundary, i.e., the 2-chain of its oriented 2-cells (faces), these must be collected by columns into a sparse ``face matrix'', and translated to the corresponding matrix of oriented 1-cycles of edges, by right multiplications of $[\partial_2]$ times the face matrix. The generated boundary polygons will be finally triangulated and rendered by the graphics hardware, or exported to standard graphics file formats, or to other formats needed by applications.

